Security and Cryptography
https://www.eecs.mit.edu/research/explore-all-research-areas/security-and-cryptography/

Our research is focused on making future computer systems more secure.

We bring together a broad spectrum of cross-cutting techniques for security, 
from theoretical cryptography and programming-language ideas, to low-level hardware and 
operating-systems security, to overall system designs and empirical bug-finding.  
We apply these techniques to a wide range of application domains, such as blockchains, 
cloud systems, Internet privacy, machine learning, and IoT devices, reflecting the 
growing importance of security in many contexts.




https://www.ojp.gov/ncjrs/virtual-library/abstracts/data-security-through-cryptography

Data Security Through Cryptography
NCJ Number 79425
Date Published 1977
Length 38 pages

Annotation
This manual describes the history and benefits of cryptography as a data security technique and 
then details the implementation of cryptographic security measures in computerized information systems.

Abstract
An introduction reviews basic data security measures, including access control, journalizing and auditing,
and concealment of information. The consequences of loss of data security are discussed, as are the burdens
that new laws regarding privacy place on institutions that maintain files on individuals. Examples illustrate 
cryptography's effectiveness in protecting data that passes outside a controlled or protected environment, 
such as electronic funds transfers or wiretaps. The manual identifies factors that should be considered when 
appraising the economic effects of a data loss versus the costs of installing extra security measures. 
Following a brief history of cryptography from the ancient Egyptians to modern automatic devices, the basic
transformation process which scrambles and modifies the input data according to a built-in algorithm is described. 
The manual emphasizes that the computer lends itself to cryptography because of the logical nature of the algorithm, 
producing inexpensive and effective data protection. A discussion of the general implementation considerations focuses 
on key selection and key management, since a common key-controlled algorithm of known strength is recommended. 
Operating environments and the unit of encipherment are covered. The implementation of cryptographic methods in
communication security is explained for three levels -link, session, and private. Also addressed are file security cryptography, 
data accuracy considerations, and the impact of lost keys. Diagrams and an index are included. The appendixes contain a summary 
of data security features implemented in IBM products and a list of related IBM publications.




Additional Details

Corporate Author
IBM Corporation AddressNeighborhood Road, Kingston, NY 12401, United States

Sale Source
IBM Corporation Address6400 Goldsboro Road, Bethesda, MD 20034, United States

Language
English

Country
United States of America

Note
File number S/370-34








